时代の句变 Week 3, Nov. 2015
时代の句变 151116 朝    
【事】The key to malaria's rampant growth has been explained by scientists. They say it is down to protein molecules called cyclins which cause cells to divide rapidly in the malaria parasite.
［王梓诚译］科学家们指出，疟疾肆虐之罪魁祸首乃一名为“细胞周期蛋白”的分子，该蛋白会促使细胞在疟原虫中快速分裂。
［源］BBC
【辞】rampant
【义】(esp. of sth. unwelcome or unpleasant) flourishing or spreading unchecked （尤指令人讨厌之物）猖獗的，猖獗流行的
【例】Political violence was rampant. 政治暴力猖獗。
［源］ODE2
王梓诚敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151116 午
【事】The holder of the Syrian passport found near the body of one of the terrorists travelled through Greece, Macedonia and Serbia, where he applied for asylum soon after he arrived on October 7.
［王娅妮译］一具恐怖分子尸体旁发现一叙利亚护照，持有者曾流窜希腊、马其顿及塞尔维亚，并于10月7日到达希腊后不久就申请了难民身份。
［朱绩崧译］数名恐怖分子死亡，其一尸旁有护照夹，显示此人经希腊、马其顿、塞尔维亚而来，10月7日抵塞，旋申请避难。
［源］Daily Telegraph, UK
【辞】asylum
【义】n. （亦作 political asylum）the protection granted by a state to someone who has left their native country as a political refugee 政治避难
【例】people seeking asylum in Britain 到英国寻求政治避难的人们
［源］ODE2
王娅妮敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151116 暮1
【事】Asian markets have opened lower, starting what is expected to be a global sell-off after the attacks in Paris on Friday night that killed 129. In Hong Kong the benchmark Hang Seng Index fell 1.96%, while in Shanghai the main index dropped 1.6%.
［王娅妮译］周五晚巴黎连锁恐袭（致129人丧生）之后，全球资产抛售（按：理解主要为欧元资产）如期降临，亚洲证券市场今日开盘价走低。香港标杆指数恒生跌1.96%，上海主要指数跌1.6%。
［朱绩崧译］周五晚，巴黎连环恐袭，129人死。今晨亚洲股市低开，应为全球抛售之兆。港股标杆恒生指数跌1.96%，沪指跌1.6%。
［朱绩崧按］金融语境中，“fall by + 百分比”结构里，by常省略。
［源］BBC
【辞】sell-off
【义】n. a sale of assets, typically at a low price, carried out in order to dispose of them rather than as normal trade （尤指低价）处理财产; a sale of shares, bonds, or commodities, especially one that causes a fall in price 〈主美〉（尤指导致价格下跌的股票、债券或商品的）抛售
【例】A sell-off would mark the second time that the business has changed hands in two years. 这次资产变卖标志着这个生意两年内第二次易主。
［源］ODE2 & Cam Dict. Online
王娅妮敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151116 暮2
【事】Stock markets recoil across the Middle East as leaders of the world's richest economies meet in Turkey to plan co-ordinated response to the atrocities in France.
［王娅妮译］整个中东地区股价急促下降，此时正值全球最富经济体（按：G20）齐聚埃及, 拟定协同应对暴徒在法暴行。
［王梓诚译］世界经济巨擘会首土耳其，聚力应对法国悲剧。与此同时，中东股价大跌。
［源］Daily Telegraph, UK
【辞】atrocity
【义】 (pl. –ies) an extremely wicked or cruel act, typically one involving physical violence or injury （常伴有暴力伤害的）恶行；暴行
【例】a textbook which detailed war atrocities  一本详细描绘战争暴行的教科书
［源］ODE2
王娅妮敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151117 朝1
【事】Chinese tech giant Huawei has unveiled two prototype removable lithium-ion batteries that can recharge in minutes, using a bespoke charger.
［王梓诚译］中国科技巨头华为发布两款可拆卸锂离子电池原型。该电池使用特制充电器，数分钟即可充满。
［王娅妮译］中国科技巨头华为发布了两款可拆卸锂电池样品，该种电池使用特制充电器，数分钟内即可充上电。
［潘腾飞译］华为发布两款使用特制充电器几分钟即可充满的可拆卸锂电池原型。
［源］BBC
【辞】bespoke
【义】Brit. (of goods, esp. clothing) made to order 〈英〉（商品，尤指衣服）定做的
【例】a bespoke suit 一套定制的西装
［源］ODE2
王梓诚敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151117 朝2
【事】 (Reuters) - Marriott International Inc will buy Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc in a cash and stock deal valued at $12.2 billion to create the world's largest hotel chain.
［王娅妮译］据路透社消息，万豪国际集团将支出价值122亿美金的现金和股票资产，收购喜来登酒店及渡假村国际集团，从而打造世界最大连锁酒店。
［王梓诚译］路透社消息，万豪国际集团将出资122亿美元，以现金和股票形式收购喜达屋酒店及度假村集团，从而成为世界最大的连锁酒店集团。
［源］Yahoo News
【辞】resort
【义】 n. a place that is a popular destination for holidays or recreation, or which is frequented for a particular purpose 度假胜地；常去之处
【例】a seaside resort 海滨度假胜地
［源］ODE2
王娅妮敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151117 午
【事】Japan has once again slipped back into recession, casting new doubts upon whether “Abenomics,” its much-touted economic-reform agenda, is succeeding.
［朱绩崧译］所谓安倍兴邦策，本欲维新，多受追捧。今日本再陷衰退，致世人复疑其效。
［王娅妮译］日本经济再次滑入萧条，重新引起人们对“安倍经济”之质疑：这个备受追捧的经济改革方针是否在生效。
［王梓诚译］日本经济再度下滑，不禁又一次质疑本欲改革、大力兜售的“安倍经济学”功用几何。
［源］National Public Radio Station
【辞】tout
【义】vt.（常作 be touted）attempt to persuade people of the merits of (sb. or sth.) 吹捧／嘘
【例】She was touted as a potential Prime Minister. 她被吹捧为未来的首相。
［源］ODE2
钱米青敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151117 暮1
【事】Rumours have been sweeping social media for days about the identity of a Hollywood star who is HIV-positive and may have passed on the condition to a string of lovers.
［朱绩崧译］社交媒体近日流言四起，指认好莱坞一明星艾滋病毒检测呈阳性，或已感染一众情人。
［源］Yahoo! News Digest
【辞】sweep
【义】affect (an area or place) swiftly and widely 迅速蔓延（或席卷）
【例】Violence swept the country. 暴力席卷了全国。
［源］ODE2
朱绩崧敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151117 暮2
【事】Hedge funds have turned more pessimistic on oil as prices flirted with $40 a barrel for the first time since August.
［王娅妮译］对冲基金公司原油期货行情低迷，8月以来首次在40美元一桶低价边上挣扎。
［王梓诚译］8月以来，石油价格首次跌近40美元／桶，致使对冲基金行情更加低迷。
［朱绩崧译］
［源］Bloomberg Business
【辞】flirt
【义】(flirt with) deliberately expose oneself to (danger or difficulty) 故意使自己遭受（危险，困难）
【例】the need of some individuals to flirt with death 一些人对故意玩儿命的需要
［源］ODE2
王娅妮敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151118 朝
【事】US surgeons say they have carried out the world's most extensive face transplant to date, including the entire scalp, ears and eyelids.
［王梓诚译］美外科医生表示，刚做完迄今世界上最大型的面部移植，移植包括整个头皮、双耳、眼睑等。
［朱绩崧译］美一外科团队称完成世界迄今最大面积脸部移植，涵盖整块头皮、双耳、双眼眼睑。
［源］BBC
【辞】to date
【义】until now 迄／至今（朱绩崧按：与完成式连用。）
【例】their finest work to date 他们迄今为止最好的作品
［源］ODE2
王梓诚敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151118 午1
【事】The icon of a yellow smiling face with two tears welling up in its eyes—known as "face with tears of joy"—was picked as the word or expression that has best captured the ethos, mood, preoccupation of 2015.
［王梓诚译］泪水盈盈的黄色笑脸，意指“喜极而泣”，当选最能捕捉2015年之精神、情思、焦点的语汇。
［朱绩崧译］黄脸挤出泪两滴，也就是“笑哭了”，当选2015最能体现意绪、情思、心头事的词语。
［源］YND
【辞】ethos
【义】the characteristic spirit of a culture, era, or community as manifested in its attitudes and aspirations （某种文化、某个时代或社会在态度和追求方面表现出来的）特有精神，精神特质。
【例】a challenge to the ethos  of the 1960s 对20世纪60年代时代精神的挑战
［源］ODE2
王梓诚敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151118 午2
【事】 "We die together" goes the Cantonese phrase that Hong Kong fans used to describe the eagerly awaited showdown with China last night - and the red-clad army of 6,000 who packed Mong Kok Stadium went home delighted to have done just that after a 0-0 draw in World Cup qualifying.
［王梓诚译］粤语常云：“死埋一齐。”——香港球迷这样形容昨晚与大陆队之世界杯资格赛决胜局。六千球迷红艳艳坐满旺角体育场，平局后又欣然而返。
［朱绩崧译］昨夜与大陆队之决胜局，香港球迷企盼良久，其志即粤语所谓“死埋一齐”。六千铁粉尽衣朱，满坐旺角体育场。翻屋企时，莫不欣然，皆因世界杯资格赛双方零比零平，果真共死也。（按：此译例多用粤语字词。）
［源］South China Morning Post
【辞】showdown
【义】a final test or confrontation intended to settle a dispute 最后的较量，一决雌雄，摊牌
【例】a showdown with the striking workers 与罢工工人摊牌
［源］ODE2 & LDOCE
钱米青敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151118 暮
【事】Gunfire and explosions shook the Paris suburb of St Denis early on Wednesday as French police surrounded a building where a Belgian Islamist militant suspected of masterminding last week's attacks in the French capital was believed to be holed up.
［王娅妮译］周三早晨，巴黎郊区圣丹尼惊闻枪火爆炸声，法国警方包围一栋公寓，确认一名比利时伊斯兰好战分子藏匿其内，此人疑为上周巴黎恐袭主谋。
［王梓诚译］周三上午，巴黎郊区圣丹尼斯枪林弹雨。法国警方围住一栋大楼，一比利时籍伊斯兰好战分子被指藏匿其中，且疑为上周巴黎恐袭策划者。
［孙欣祺译］当地时间周三凌晨，巴黎市郊圣丹尼爆发激烈枪战，现场还发生爆炸。早前警方包围了当地一幢建筑，怀疑其中藏匿一名比利时伊斯兰武装分子，此人疑为上周巴黎恐怖袭击案主谋。
［源］Reuters
【辞】mastermind
【义】vt. plan and direct (an ingenious and complex scheme or enterprise) 策划，操办
【例】The project was masterminded by Morris, then aged 29. 该项目主策划是莫里斯，当时29岁。（朱绩崧按：年方廿九，时近而立）
［源］ODE2 & LDOCE
王娅妮敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151119 朝
【事】Obama lashes out over calls to refuse Syrian refugees.
［王梓诚译］美总统奥巴马怒斥有关拒绝叙利亚难民入境的呼声。
［朱绩崧译］总统奥巴马怒斥拒绝叙利亚难民入境美国的呼吁。
［源］The Guardian, UK
【辞】lash out
【义】to suddenly speak angrily to sb. or criticize sb. angrily
【例】Olsen lashed out at the media. 奥尔森猛烈地抨击了媒体。
［源］LDOCE
王梓诚敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151119 午
【事】Islamic State's official magazine carried a photo on Wednesday of a Schweppes drink which, it said, was used to make an improvised bomb that brought down a Russian airliner over Egypt's Sinai Peninsula last month, killing all 224 people on board.
［王娅妮］周三，“伊斯兰国”官方杂志登一“怡泉”饮料照片，据称此为恐怖分子之前拿来凑出一枚炸弹所用，该炸弹上月致飞经埃及西奈半岛的俄客机坠毁，机上224人全部丧生。
［王梓诚译］周三，“伊斯兰国”官方杂志刊登了一张“玉泉”饮料的照片，称其被用来制造上月炸毁俄方客机的炸弹。该客机飞过埃及西奈半岛时被炸毁，机上224人无一幸免。
［孙欣祺译］“伊斯兰国”组织于周三在其官方杂志发布了一张“玉泉”汽水照片，疑系简易炸弹原料，并造成上月埃及西奈俄航班机空难，机上224人全部遇难。
［源］Reuters
【辞】improvise
【义】vt. produce or make (something) from whatever is available 凑合出...
【例】I improvised a costume for myself out of an old blue dress.［朱绩崧译］我用一件蓝色旧衣，凑合着给自己改出一件戏服。
［源］ODE2
王娅妮敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151119 暮1
【事】Thousands of tonnes of muck released when a dam burst on November 5th in Brazil’s interior will reach the Atlantic coast tomorrow, leaving untold environmental damage in its wake.
［孙欣祺译］11月5日，巴西境内一废水库发生溃坝，千吨废料倾泻而下，预计将于明天流入大西洋海域，目前尚无法判断届时将造成的污染程度。
［王娅妮译］11月5日，巴西境内矿坝溃堤，瞬间成千上万矿物废料迸发而出，这些废料明日将抵大西洋海岸，未来该海域因之遭受的污染创伤，不可估量。
［源］Eco. Esp.
【辞】untold
【义】[attrib.] too much or many to be counted or measured 数不清的，无数的；不可计量的
【例】Thieves caused untold damage. 窃贼造成了不可估量的损失
［源］ODE2
王梓诚敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151119 暮2
【事】Superbugs have broken through the last line of antibiotic defences and now threaten to cause untreatable infections across the world, according to researchers.
［王娅妮译］研究人员表示，超细菌已冲破抗生素的末道防线，目前可能会在世界大范围内引发传染疾病，无可治愈。
［孙欣祺译］研究显示，超级细菌已突破抗生素的最后防线，极有可能在全世界范围内扩散传染，且无药可医。
［源］The Times, UK
【辞】threaten
【义】vi. (of a situation or weather conditions) seem likely to produce an unpleasant or unwelcome result（形势，天气状况）构成威胁，可能产生不良后果
【例】The dispute threatened to spread to other cities. 争端可能会波及其他城市。
［源］ODE2 
王娅妮敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151120 朝
【事】Obama said China must stop land reclamation in the disputed waters of the South China Sea and accept arbitration of its territorial claims. 
［王梓诚译］美总统奥巴马称，中国必须停止在南海争议海域填海造地，并接受对其领海范围的仲裁。
［朱绩崧译］中国于南海争议水域围海造地，拒不接受领海划分问题国际仲裁结果。美总统奥巴马强烈反对。
［源］Eco. Esp.
【辞】arbitration
【义】the use of an arbitrator to settle a dispute （纠纷的）仲裁，公断
【例】The dispute is going to arbitration. 这一争端将受仲裁。
［源］ODE2 & LDOCE
王梓诚敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151120 午
【事】U.S. health regulators on Thursday cleared the way for a type of genetically engineered Atlantic salmon to be farmed for human consumption - the first such approval for an animal whose DNA has been scientifically modified.
［王娅妮译］周四，美卫生监管机构为一种转基因大西洋鲑的未来大规模养殖铺平了道路，该种鲑鱼专供人们食用。此为美首例同类科学转基因动物养殖批准。
［王梓诚译］周四，美卫生监管部门批准养殖一种转基因大西洋鲑鱼供人类食用，这是第一个得到此类批准的转基因动物。
［源］Reuters
【辞】farm
【义】vt. breed or grow commercially (a type of livestock or crop, especially one not normally domesticated or cultivated) 商业化养殖（牲畜，尤指非驯养的动物）；商业化种植（作物，尤指非培育的作物）
【例】Ostriches are farmed in South Africa and Australia. ［王娅妮译］鸵鸟在南非和澳洲大量养殖。
［源］ODE2 & Ox.Dicts.Online
王娅妮敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151120 暮1
【事】Scientists in China have identified infectious bacteria that may be resistant to antibiotics.
［王梓诚译］中国科学家发现了可能天然耐受抗生素的传染性细菌。
［朱绩崧译］可能耐受抗生素的传染性细菌已为中国科学家所辨识。
［源］YND
【辞】infectious
【义】(of a disease or disease-causing organism) liable to be transmitted to people, organisms, etc. through the environment （疾病、致病生物体）传染的，有传染性的
【例】The dogs may still be infectious. 这些狗可能仍会传播疾病。
［源］ODE2
王梓诚敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151120 暮2
【事】Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe may consider a request from the Philippines for large coastguard ships to patrol the disputed South China Sea, after the two allies reached a deal on defense equipment and technology.
［王娅妮译］日菲两同盟国就防卫装备和技术达成协议后，日首相安倍晋三或会考虑菲之请求派出大型海岸保卫舰艇，在颇受争议的中国南海巡逻。
［王梓诚译］南海主权饱受争议。日菲就国防装备和技术达成协议后，日首相安倍晋三或将考虑菲方请求，向其提供大型巡航舰，以便在南海巡逻。
［朱绩崧译］日本与菲律宾就防务装备、技术达成协议后，首相安倍晋三或会考虑应菲之请，派遣大型海岸警卫舰巡航引发与华争议的南中国海。
［源］Reuters
【辞】patrol
【义】vt. keep watch over (an area) by regularly walking or travelling around it 在…巡逻
【例】The garrison had to patrol the streets to maintain order. 卫戍部队不得不在街道上巡逻来维持秩序。
［源］ODE2
王娅妮敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151121 朝
【事】Today Samsung ships a new version of Gear VR, a headset that lets people enjoy virtual reality by slotting in a smartphone.
［王娅妮译］今三星一新款虚拟现实眼镜 Gear VR 上市, 此为一种整套头戴式装置，将其连上智能手机即可欣赏虚拟现实。
［孙欣祺译］三星新款Gear VR于今天上市，用户头戴设备，插上智能手机，即可体验虚拟现实环境。
［源］Eco. Esp.
【辞】ship
【义】vt. （Electronics) make a product available for purchase 〔电子〕使（产品）上市
【例】They’re now shipping their long-awaited new anti-virus software. 现在，他们即将发布其全新抗病毒软件。（王梓诚译）
［源］ODE2 & LDOCE
王梓诚敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151121 午
【事】Chinese buyers have deserted Melbourne's prestige property market following the Australian Government's crackdown on foreign home–owners, buyer advocates say.
［王娅妮译］澳房产律师称，自政府严厉限管海外人士在澳置业以来，中国买主已放弃盛名已久的墨尔本房产市场。
［朱绩崧译］房产投资律师称，澳政府重挫外籍人士置业欲求，中国买家遂离弃墨尔本高端不动产市场。
［源］Herald Sun, Australia
【辞】crackdown
【义】n. [usu. sing. ] severe measures to restrict or discourage undesirable or illegal people or behaviour（对违法的人或行为等的）制裁；镇压
【例】a crackdown on car crime 对汽车犯罪的严厉打击
［源］ODE2
王娅妮敬制｜重光会 © 2015
in the previous posting, attention shld b focused on the noun phrase “prestige property market": “prestige" modifies “property" or “property market"? dr chu and ms wang hv obviously made different answers.
时代の句变 151121 暮
【事】Every November, America's Thanksgiving holiday, which falls next Thursday, means treats for young cinema-goers.
［王娅妮译］下周四会如期到来的美国感恩节，如同以往每年十一月的一样，都会为年轻影迷带来极享观影盛宴。
［孙欣祺译］每年十一月，美国感恩节假期总是年轻影迷的狂欢日，而今年的电影盛宴定档下周四。
［朱绩崧译］每年11月，美国感恩节。今岁，节逢下周四，大片纷呈，酬答影迷。
［源］Eco. Esp.
【辞】treat
【义】an event or item that is out of the ordinary and gives great pleasure （不同一般的）乐事，乐趣
【例】He wanted to take her to the pictures as a treat. 他想用看电影的方式让她开心。（王梓诚按：注意此处the pictures指电影院）
［源］ODE2
王梓诚敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151122 朝
【事】Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg has said he will take two months of paternity leave once his first child is born.
［王娅妮译］脸书总裁马克·扎克伯格称首子诞生之日，即为两月陪护产假之始。
［孙欣祺译］Facebook总裁马克·扎克伯格已表示，等第一个孩子出世，他会请两个月的陪产假。
［源］YND
【辞】paternity 
【义】(esp. in legal context) the state of being sb's father 〔尤用于法律〕父亲身份
【例】He refused to admit paternity of the child. 他拒绝承认是这个孩子的父亲。  他拒绝认子。［朱绩崧译］
［源］ODE2
王梓诚敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151122 午1
【事】South Korean former President Kim Young-sam, an iconic figure of South Korea's pro-democracy movement, has died.
［王娅妮译］韩国前总统金泳三于今去世，其为韩亲民主运动的标志人物。
［王梓诚译］韩前总统金泳三去世，其为韩国亲民主运动代表人物。
［源］BBC News
【辞】iconic
【义】adj. widely known and acknowledged especially for distinctive excellence
【例】an iconic writer 代表作家［王娅妮译］
［源］M-W
王娅妮敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151122 午2
【事】Former South Korean President Kim Young Sam, who ended a period of military coups in the country and was forced to seek an international bailout, has died. He was 87.
［孙欣祺译］韩国前总统金泳三逝世，享年87岁，他生前曾结束国内军事政变，后又迫于压力寻求国际财政援助。
［王梓诚译］韩国前总统金泳三去世，享年87岁。生前，他终结了国内的军事政变，也曾被迫寻求国际财政援助。
［源］Bloomberg Business
【辞】coup
【义】n. a sudden, violent, and illegal seizure of power from a government 政变
【例】He was overthrown in an army coup. 他在军事政变中被推翻了。
［源］ODE2
王娅妮敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 151122 暮
【事】South America's vast Amazon region harbors one of the world's most diverse collection of trees, but more than half may be at risk for extinction.
［王梓诚译］南美亚马逊地区地缘辽阔，树木种类世界之最，然其半数有余或濒临灭绝。
［王娅妮译］广袤的南美亚马逊河流域，曾一直为成千上万树木安住的家园，树类之丰富繁多，世界屈指可数。然而过半树木目前，恐濒临灭绝。
［朱绩崧译］南美亚马逊地区广袤，以树种丰富闻名天下，然逾半数或已濒危。
［源］YND
【辞】harbor
【义】vt. give a home or shelter to 为…提供住所（或动物栖息地）；为…提供庇护
【例】woodlands that once harbored a colony of red deer 曾是马鹿群栖息地的林区
［源］ODE2
王梓诚敬制｜重光会 © 2015
时代の句变 复习 151116–22
[编] 孙欣祺
1 The key to malaria's _____（猖獗的）growth has been explained by scientists. They say it is down to protein molecules called cyclins which cause cells to divide rapidly in the malaria parasite.
2 The holder of the Syrian passport found near the body of one of the terrorists travelled through Greece,Macedonia and Serbia, where he applied for _____（政治避难）soon after he arrived on October 7.
3 Asian markets have opened lower, starting what is expected to be a global _____（抛售）after the attacks in Paris on Friday night that killed 129. In Hong Kong the benchmark Hang Seng Index fell 1.96%, while in Shanghai the main index dropped 1.6%.
4 Stock markets recoil across the Middle East as leaders of the world's richest economies meet in Turkey to plan co-ordinated response to the _____（暴行）in France.
5 Chinese tech giant Huawei has unveiled two prototype removable lithium-ion batteries that can recharge in minutes, using a _____（特制的，定做的）charger.
6 Marriott International Inc will buy Starwood Hotels & _____（度假村）Worldwide Inc in a cash and stock deal valued at $12.2 billion to create the world's largest hotel chain.
7 Japan has once again slipped back into recession, casting new doubts upon whether “Abenomics,” its _____（备受追捧的）economic-reform agenda, is succeeding.
8 Rumours have been _____（席卷，迅速扩散）social media for days about the identity of a Hollywood star who is HIV-positive and may have passed on the condition to a string of lovers.
9 Hedge funds have turned more pessimistic on oil as prices _____（挣扎）with $40 a barrel for the first time since August.
10 Herman Melville figured _Moby-Dick_ would be his masterpiece and was bewildered when it _____（失败）.
11 US surgeons say they have carried out the world's most extensive face transplant _____（迄今）, including the entire scalp, ears and eyelids.
12 The icon of a yellow smiling face with two tears welling up in its eyes—known as "face with tears of joy"—was picked as the word or expression that has best captured the _____（特有精神）, mood, preoccupation of 2015.
13 "We die together" goes the Cantonese phrase that Hong Kong fans used to describe the eagerly awaited _____（决胜局，决战）with China last night - and the red-clad army of 6,000 who packed Mong Kok Stadium went home delighted to have done just that after a 0-0 draw in World Cup qualifying.
14 Gunfire and explosions shook the Paris suburb of St Denis early on Wednesday as French police surrounded a building where a Belgian Islamist militant suspected of _____（策划）last week's attacks in the French capital was believed to be holed up.
15 Obama lashes _____ over calls to refuse Syrian refugees.
16 Islamic State's official magazine carried a photo on Wednesday of a Schweppes drink which, it said, was used to make an _____（临时的；简易的）bomb that brought down a Russian airliner over Egypt's Sinai Peninsula last month, killing all 224 people on board.
17 Thousands of tonnes of muck released when a dam burst on November 5th in Brazil’s interior will reach the Atlantic coast tomorrow, leaving _____（不可估量的）environmental damage in its wake.
18 Superbugs have broken through the last line of antibiotic defences and now _____（很可能）to cause untreatable infections across the world, according to researchers.
19 Obama said China must stop land reclamation in the disputed waters of the South China Sea and accept _____（仲裁）of its territorial claims.
20 U.S. health regulators on Thursday cleared the way for a type of genetically engineered Atlantic salmon to be _____（养殖）for human consumption - the first such approval for an animal whose DNA has been scientifically modified.
21 Scientists in China have identified _____（有传染性的）bacteria that may be resistant to antibiotics.
22 Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe may consider a request from the Philippines for large coastguard ships to _____（巡逻）the disputed South China Sea, after the two allies reached a deal on defense equipment and technology.
23 Today Samsung _____（使…上市）a new version of Gear VR, a headset that lets people enjoy virtual reality by slotting in a smartphone.
24 Chinese buyers have deserted Melbourne's prestige property market following the Australian Government's ____（重挫，制裁）on foreign home–owners, buyer advocates say.
25 Every November, America's Thanksgiving holiday, which falls next Thursday, means _____（乐趣）for young cinema-goers.
26 Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg has said he will take two months of _____（陪产假）once his first child is born.
27 South Korean former President Kim Young-sam, an _____（标志性的）figure of South Korea's pro-democracy movement, has died.
28 Former South Korean President Kim Young Sam, who ended a period of military _____（政变）in the country and was forced to seek an international bailout, has died. He was 87.
29 South America's vast Amazon region harbors one of the world's most diverse collection of trees, but more than half may be at risk for _____（灭绝）.
